# EmpowerNUS

This application is a simple yet powerful tool that aims to become a one stop safety shop for our users. Developed in Flutter and using Firebase for backend services, this application provides user authentication and a platform for reporting crime incidents, accessing safety resources, connecting with other users, sharing life-saving data with authorities, safety plans, and much more to help its users feel empowered through safety!

## Tech Stack

- **Flutter:** Flutter is an open-source UI software development kit created by Google. It is used to develop applications for Android, iOS, Linux, Mac, Windows, Google Fuchsia, and the web from a single codebase.
  
- **Dart:** Dart is the programming language used in the Flutter framework. Dart syntax is easy to understand for JavaScript or Java developers as it supports most of the object-oriented concepts.

- **Firebase Authentication:** We are using Firebase for user authentication. Firebase Auth provides multiple methods for authentication, including email and password authentication, which we are using in this project.
  
- **Cloud Firestore:** Cloud Firestore is a flexible, scalable NoSQL cloud database to store and sync data for client- and server-side development.

- **Solidity:** Solidity is a programming language specifically designed for writing smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. It is a statically-typed language that enables developers to define the behavior and logic of smart contracts, which are self-executing agreements with predefined rules. Solidity allows developers to create decentralized applications (DApps) and implement complex business logic within the Ethereum ecosystem.

- **Python/Tensorflow/OpenCV:** Python is a versatile and powerful programming language widely used in the field of artificial intelligence and computer vision. With its simplicity and readability, Python provides a solid foundation for developing applications that leverage advanced algorithms and data processing capabilities. It offers a vast ecosystem of libraries and frameworks like Tensorflow and OpenCV, making it an ideal choice for building AI-powered solutions.

## Features

### Existing Features

- **User Registration:** New users can create an account using their email address and password.
- **User Login:** Registered users can log in to the application.
- **Home Page** Users can access the home page
- **Report system** Users can access the report page


### Future Features

-**Object Detection/Deep Computer Vision AI Algorithm**-- Our object detection AI algorithm will help users take pictures of crime scene and label critical information before the evidence passes to the authorities. Moreover, this algorithm will be used when the panic button is activated.
-**Educational Resources** Users will be able to enjoy our unique courses aimed at raising awareness on crime prevention and self defense with an element of gamification.
- **Blockchain/Smart Contracts Crime Reporting:** Users can deploy crime incidents reports directly through the app. This information can be shared with the authorities to ensure proper actions are taken. We will deploy these reports in the form of smart contracts using solidity and the ethereum blockchain to ensure user privacy and data immutability.
- **Safety Resources:** Users can access information and resources on how to prevent crimes, ensuring they are well informed.
- **User Connection:** The app will allow users to share experiences and connect with other users, creating a sense of community and collective security.
- **Data Sharing with Authorities:** Users will be able to share crucial data with authorities, ensuring real-time communication during emergency situations.
- **Area Quick Scan:** The app will include a feature to quickly scan the area for potential risks.
- **Angel List:** Users can have an emergency contact list called the 'Angel List' for instant help during crisis situations.

## Database Structure

In the context of our application, these categories describe the nodes that will be created for storing documents related to user information. The attributes of the documents within each node are roughly described below:

1. Users: This category represents the user profiles in your app. Each user node can store information such as username, email, profile picture, contact information, and any other relevant details specific to the user.

2. Contact: This category represents the emergency contacts that users can save in their app. Each contact node can store details such as contact name, phone number, relationship to the user, and any additional information needed for emergency situations.

3. Alert: This category represents the alerts generated by the app for users. Each alert node can contain information about the type of alert (e.g., crime alert, safety advisory), timestamp, location, and any relevant details or instructions for the users.

4. Location: This category represents the locations relevant to your app. Each location node can store information such as the name of the location, geographical coordinates (latitude and longitude), address, and any additional details related to the location.

5. Report: This category represents the user-generated incident reports. Each report node can include details such as the type of incident, description, timestamp, location, attached media (e.g., photos, videos), and any other relevant information for documenting and reporting incidents.

6. Angel Contact: This category represents the contacts designated as "angel contacts" or trusted contacts for users. Each angel contact node can store details such as contact name, phone number, relationship to the user, and any additional information specific to the trusted contact.

7. Safety Plan: This category represents the safety plans created by users. Each safety plan node can include information such as safety tips, emergency procedures, relevant contact numbers, and any other resources or instructions to ensure user safety.

8. Map Path: This category represents the paths or routes displayed on the map in your app. Each map path node can contain information such as the start and end points, waypoints, distance, estimated time, and any other relevant details for navigation and guidance.

PS: The structure described here is visualised further in our Entity Relation Diagram in the next section.


## Planning Diagrams

Architecture Diagram: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1djkRIT1R9GQVBvEySOhXF6KxPdcfer_D/view?usp=sharing
Class Diagram: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1djkRIT1R9GQVBvEySOhXF6KxPdcfer_D/view?usp=sharing
Entity Relation Diagram: https://drive.google.com/file/d/179XJrIKGFrrp47DK84rDclctYUwO22yc/view?usp=sharing


## Designs (UI/UX)

!~[App Mockup Design](https://github.com/YuvBindal/EmpowerNUS/blob/main/App%20Mockup%20Design.png)
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mjvpThLszqG0kx1BdfQPGnt_emhp1kLO/view?usp=sharing

The designs above showcase the UI/UX visuals for the EmpowerNUS app. We have included these to elaborate on our planning process during coding the UI/UX for this app which can be testing by referring to the "USER TESTING" section. The designs show the UI/UX for the:
- Getting Started Page.
- Login Page.
- Sign Up Page.
- Home Page.
- Reporting Page.
- Educational Resources Page

Note: These designs only illustrate a fraction of our app.

## Relevant Datasets / Plan Changes

Our team has decided to switch the app's focus from Singapore to the Indian subcontinent as we were able to extract relevant datasets for our evidence generating AI algorithm using Kaggle datasets for India. The 2018 article below lists an extensive repository of datasets related to different types of crimes in India which we intend to use in the future for development purposes.

https://data.gov.in/catalog/crime-india-2018

## FIREBASE DATABASE SHOWCASE

The image below shows proof of our firebase database that we will further develop to support a seamless experience for our users in tasks such as logging in, signing up, deploying reports, route finding, and much more!

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cgi5cscHQMgwBA9JSUwP25O8vPbNNFY4/view?usp=sharing

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Flutter SDK: The Flutter SDK is required to build and run the app. Visit the [official Flutter site](https://flutter.dev/) to download and install Flutter.
- Firebase Account: This app uses Firebase for authentication. You need to have a Firebase project setup and have added this Flutter app to that Firebase project. Visit the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com) to set up a new Firebase project if you don't have one already.

### User Testing

1. Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YourGitHubUsername/EmpowerNUS.git
cd /path/to/EmpowerNUS
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
flutter pub get


```
3. Checkout to the Login_Frontend Branch
```
Git > Branches > Login_Frontend > Checkout
```

5. Run the application:

```bash
flutter run
```

6. Checkout to the UI_Codes Branch
``` Git > Branches > UI_Codes ```

Note: UI_Codes stores the classes for our home page, educational resources page, and Reporting system. Meanwhile, Login_Frontend holds the code for the setting up process of the app.


## Disclaimer

The backend side of our application is still undergoing debugging and further testing for those reasons we have only made the front end application available to interesting users.



